
# Let's Get Started!


Okay, first of all, thank me since I'm here to save you some time to figure out how this entire project has been setup and how to replicate it on your local machine so that you can start right away!

I've tried documenting as much stuff as possible for making on-boarding to this project easier. Feel free to suggest new improvements if you think that may further make it easier for others.

Let's get started!


## Tools and Dependencies

The first and foremost thing to do is to check if your system is ready to get started. There are couple of tools and dependencies of the project that should be there on your system before you can start though. I'm listing here a few things explaining what they are for and how to install them.

### Linux and VSCode
These two are not really hard requirements of the project, but a pair of recommended things to be ready with since this project started with these two. It's absolutely fine to use your personal favourite OS and editor, but keep in mind, I wrote everything with these two (vscodium to be specific) so I can't guarantee that things would be plug and play on other dev environment settings.

### VSCode Extensions
While choosing extensions is also on your personal preference, I'd like to highlight and absolutely suggest using the editorconfig extension. Download it [from here](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=EditorConfig.EditorConfig) for VSCode.

While you can use other extensions and no other extensions at all, the recommended ones from my end would be extensions to catch **eslint** and **stylelint** errors and warnings.

### Git!
Well, this goes without saying. You need git on your machine and a github account to access the repository. You can also install git extension for VSCode to make committing easier for you. I personally use the command line utility called [lazygit](https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazygit).

### Mkdocs
This utility is needed to generate beautiful project and user documentation, as the one you're reading right now. This is available via the python's package manager called **pip**. We're also using material theme for the mkdocs which also needs to be downloaded along side it. You can [read more about it here](https://www.mkdocs.org/).

### PHP and Composer
The php is obvious, duh! It's WordPress-targeted project for god's sake. But along side it, this project heavily relies of the PHP's package manager called **composer** that lets you install project dependencies just like you do for NodeJS or in rustlang via cargo. [Check it out here](https://getcomposer.org/).

### Bun
Unlike the most prominent Javascript runtime established in the tech market, NodeJS, I'm going with Bun to give it a try. Since the project is just starting out and there's no case of handling legacy codebase (although JS in WP is jQuery, so there's that), let's see how this goes. Says that it's a drop in replacement for the NodeJS.

### Docker
And our good old friend docker! This is just a fancy tool in the toolbox to make it easy to spin the local WP setup to test things out. We're not using it in production anywhere. It helps in the way that you don't have to go to your /var/www directory and spin a new WordPress installation for the sake of this project. You can run it from the project directory and easily share and fix changes among other developers.

## Project Setup

Okay, now that we've basic understanding of what tools should you be ready with, it's time to setup the project and your local dev environment so that you can start working on things.

### Get the repo

First, get your hands on the repo. Since you're reading this documentation, that probably means you already have the access to it. Download it to your local working directory like so,

``` sh
$ git clone git@github.com:CherryGot/wp-workbench.git
```

Once the repo has downloaded, install all the dependencies using the following commands.

``` sh
$ composer install
```
``` sh
$ bun install
```

As this is getting ready, you should also configure your local git environment to be able to read and understand the diffs of the lock file generated by bun. The lock file is a binary file so it won't just open like any other text file. The instructions to make it work is [listed here](https://bun.sh/docs/install/lockfile).

Once the dependencies are installed, we set up **husky** for your local setup. This is JS package to that listens to events of git activity and then lets you do things based on those events. Well, you maybe asking, what would it have to do with this project, eh mate? Well, the answer is, we don't necessarily consume this package directly, but one of the devDependencies, **commitlint** uses it to lint your commit messages. You know, I don't want commit messages like "bug fix" or "more fixes". This tool helps us to stay consistent throughout the project. The convention of commit messages is same as set by [conventional commit](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#specification) but beware, we're just taking an inspiration from it. It's not 100% enforced as is.

To setup husky, run the following command
``` sh
$ bunx husky install
```

After all is setup, try the following set of commands to confirm that everything is working as expected. These are commands related to lint and tests.
``` sh
$ composer run lint
```
``` sh
$ composer run test
```
``` sh
$ bunx lint
```
``` sh
$ bunx test
```

If all goes well without any problems, we're on our way to finalize the dev setup then! Congrats for making up till here.

### Setup local dev environment
